Transcript

now one of AI's biggest winners,
is building big in its hometown of Boise,
Idaho, transforming it into America's latest boomtown.
Newly minted millionaires, gated communities with
sprawling homes and a downtown filled with new
businesses and new people.
It's been an influx of Californians here.
Probably about every 10% of the people I know are
transplants.
So much more development.
A lot of restaurants popping up.
Change is certainly here.
That change is driven largely by the AI boom and
the insatiable need for the chips that make it possible.
Every AI processor from Nvidia or AMD needs memory
so it can rapidly access data to execute tasks,
and there isn't enough of it.
And that's what micron makes and why it's spending $50
billion to expand in Boise, building two huge new fabs.
The first is set to pump out memory chips next year.
It does require that we think about how we are able
to staff with 17,000 jobs.
We've had to open up talent pathways that didn't exist
or haven't existed in the U.S.
For sure, for for decades.
CNBC went to Boise to see Micron's construction and
ask locals about all the changes firsthand.
Micron is the only U.S.
based company that makes the high bandwidth memory HBM
that's most crucial for AI.
HBM is made up of stacks of general purpose Dram,
which is also what's used in consumer electronics.
Now, AI is gobbling up so much that the prices of
memory and electronics like Apple MacBooks and iPads are
soaring. So is Micron's stock,
and with it the net worth of its employees.
But the memory industry is known for being in a classic
boom and bust cycle.
And I think. So goes Micron,
so goes Boise.
Micron started here.
You know this is Micron's hometown.
Micron was founded in Boise nearly 50 years ago in the
basement of a dental office,
and by 1981, its first chip plant was
up and running here.
Remember our name when choosing your career.
Boise remains Micron's headquarters and a big hub
for R & D and packaging.
Micron manufactures some chips in Virginia,
but most of its leading edge memory production happens
overseas at fabs in Taiwan, Japan and Singapore.
With Boise's new fab online next year,
that's about to change.
The excitement around micron here locally
is pretty amazing.
While SK Hynix and Samsung, both based in Korea,
ship more of that coveted high bandwidth memory for
AI, micron is the only one building a front end fab to
manufacture memory on U.S.
soil. Sk Hynix is building a packaging fab in Indiana,
where memory chips will be stacked and wired together,
but all its new manufacturing fabs are being
built in Korea, along with new fabs from
Samsung there. That's why Micron's project in Boise is
such a big deal, along with an even bigger
$100 billion campus with up to four fabs.
Micron is building in Clay, New York,
where it just poured the first concrete.
This is critical capability,
which also brings with it for micron alone Grid
thousand American jobs.
The U.S. government is giving Micron up to $6.2
billion of Chips act funds to support the project.
Construction on Micron's first Boise Fab began in
2023 with planned completion in 2027.
The second Boise Fab planned for late 2028 is still a
patch of dirt nearby.
It's far from Micron's only presence in the area,
but it will be the largest.
In the last 12 months, in talking to friends and
people that I know that work for Micron, they're not only
excited about the growth that they physically can
see, but they're excited about the growth they see
electronically in their stocks.
One big way Micron attracts all these workers is by
offering stock awards to employees,
a considerable opportunity for wealth,
considering Micron's performance
over the last year.
We actually had one gentleman who was very
blessed with the amount of stock that he had,
mostly Micron, and when he came back in
after eight days and we said,
what has changed in your life since we met last time?
And he said, I'm $1 million richer in
eight trading days.
JT Belnap's wealth management firm,
now focuses almost entirely on managing money for
Micron employees.
Whenever you see a company exploding like Micron,
it's so exciting.
But what you don't realize is it's equally stressful
when you have a stock that goes from $100 a share to
well over $1,000 a share, and you have people
concerned, how long is that going to last?
Well, you don't know when that
window is going to close.
Whether or not they feel that the stock is going to
continue to rise or not.
They're just going to take their profits now and invest
it into real estate.
Mortgage broker Gerald Robinson consulted with four
Micron clients looking to buy homes just in the
last few weeks.
We're just seeing an influx of people coming from out of
state that are building. We're seeing birth rate
where, you know, people are buying their very
first home. And so we're just really not seeing that
keeping up with the amount of houses that are needed.
Which of course changes the housing market in what until
now has been a relatively affordable area.
There's been a 4.5% rise in homes sold above their list
price since last year, topping national averages.
I think the median price in Boise is still hovering
around 560, 575, so there's still plenty of
opportunity here and still plenty of room to grow.
But now we're just seeing the lower incomes maybe
getting a little bit more and more priced out.
Micron expects to create about 3,500 direct jobs at
the new sites, adding to about 7,000 people
there today. While some Boise residents we talked to
are fans of the changes, others worry about traffic
and strain on resources.
From 2020 to 2025, Idaho's population growth of
10.4% was already the fastest in the nation.
The city has certainly grown out,
and the out is tough for people that live in Boise
because the traffic is much more than it used to be.
And it's not just Micron.
Meta is building an $800 million data center 20 miles
west in Kuna, Idaho, that it says will
create 100 long term jobs.
There's a flurry of new offices from Micron
suppliers like Lam Research and cleanroom builder
excite, plus contractors coming in for lucrative jobs
helping to build Micron's fabs.
I'll be closing a house for a electrician that came in
from out of state, and Micron is paying him an
exorbitant amount of money to be an electrician on that
fab. And he's just buying a house because of that.
Micron's project includes utility and water treatment
buildings to support the resource intensive process
of making chips.
Local utility Idaho Power told CNBC that it does not
expect large load growth, including Micron's
expansion, to increase electric bills for other
customers. Water is also a concern for some we spoke to
as smoke clouded the sky from active
wildfires nearby.
We have a drought going on and you can drive out as