Yahoo Finance Video

1

SCHW +0.06%

SNDK -4.98%

MU -5.25%

WDC -4.53%

Explore stocks on CoinbaseTrading disclosure

Trading disclosure

The above button links to Coinbase. Yahoo Finance is not a broker-dealer or investment adviser and does not offer securities or cryptocurrencies for sale or facilitate trading. Coinbase pays us for certain activity generated through this link. Prices displayed are informational.

Learn more

Charles Schwab Head Trading & Derivatives Strategist Joe Mazzola joins Jared Blikre to break down how higher Treasury yields are impacting retail traders—and what it means for their portfolios and trading strategies.

Video Transcript

00:00 Speaker A

One trend I've heard from a lot of different guests over the last few years is that the retail trader is much more sophisticated nowadays than say pre-pandemic or even in those crazy 2021 trades that we saw earlier that that year. So, talk to us about that and just the kind of sophistication and maybe some of their strategies that you're seeing play out in the markets and how that relates to everything else we're seeing.

00:32 Speaker B

Well, absolutely. I think, look, a big component of that is investor education and that's something that we take very seriously at Schwab.

00:39 Speaker B

You know, we we we see our clients at live events. Um, you know, we have uh just did one here in Dallas uh a couple weeks ago and 810 clients show up. And so we cover everything from, you know, just market commentary to stocks, to sectors, all the way up to options. And I think the adoption of options when done correctly is something that uh I I've been uh seeing quite a bit uh with retail clients is that they're not chasing like they did in 2021 where it was all kind of that upside call buying.

01:21 Speaker B

Uh they're looking at more strategic type of positions. I mentioned kind of selling puts and some of the uh the memory uh DRAM names. You saw a lot of put selling in SanDisk and Micron and uh Western Digital when those stocks were pulling back 20, 30% in July. So really just kind of harnessing that uh spike in implied volatility. I think that's one of the things that I've seen. Another thing that I'm that I'm really starting to see these last couple of weeks is using uh things like proxy ETFs, whether it's the Qs, whether it's the Spiders, as a way to hedge a a portfolio.

02:04 Speaker B

So they're looking at what we call portfolio beta, which basically takes all of the different stocks within the portfolio. It measures, you know, their relative beta to that proxy product. And it gives them a way to kind of um uh protect or at least hedge against some of that downside risk. So we've started to see more buying activity specifically kind of on some downside hedges within the Qs and the spiders as a way to hedge an entire portfolio as opposed to going through and trying to hedge individual positions.

02:40 Speaker B

You know, there's a little bit of a pullback from the idiosyncratic risk that I mentioned before and a little bit more of a gravitation towards those ETFs. Not I'm and I'm not saying the the levered ETFs, but I'm talking about, you know, more the um the kind of general ETFs.

Related Videos

View Comments (1)

Terms and Privacy Policy

More Info